Ohm and The AoK Platform

The Ohm Platform and Organization is premised on showing the value of acts of kindness and how even the smallest acts can be more valuable than any sum of money. Using cryptocurrency as a means to promote a token of value while challenging the value of other cryptocurrencies that derive their value purely from digital scarcity, we intend to build a technology platform that is capable of self-sustaining a community of users and followers that want to earn rewards, similar to existing point-based reward systems today. Instead of points, we will reward with cryptocurrency with a goal of having 100% of Ohm coins circulated and owned through verified acts of kindness. In order to circulate the coins, promote the platform and the acts of kindness, and build the community and platform technology, we will have to use existing cryptocurrency platforms and exchanges as a means to circulate the currency initially. The Aok Platform is comprised of the technology components and applications that will be needed to accomplish these goals.

Those that are interested in earning Ohm but may not be the types that perform many acts of kindness without it advancing an objective of their own (service-to-self), may see the acts of kindness they are being asked to perform as a trivial opportunity to earn a new cryptocurrency. Those that are interested in acts of kindness but don’t believe they should be rewarded for them (service-to-others), we want to embrace and pay tribute to by recognizing the positive impact they have on the people and world around them by rewarding them with Ohm. Both types are helping to achieve the objective of spreading kindness into the world, but there is a profound side-effect on those that are purely opportunity seekers mentioned previously. It has been shown that over time, the more the opportunists are exposed to committing acts of kindness and the natural rewards that come with them, start to care less about the money or opportunity for themselves. Instead, they become more like the second group where they become more interested in simply being kind. Cryptocurrency, and its large appeal, provides a path for Ohm to not only make a positive impact in the world by earning it through acts of kindness, but to also influence people who may be less kind or giving, to do more of it once they feel the direct benefits of doing so, even if it has to be incentivized initially. Over time, the Aok Platform could have as significant an impact as Facebook has, but in an entirely different way. As these acts of kindness continue to spread, and people earn more Ohm, the currency will naturally be distributed and instead of the value of the currency being based purely on supply, demand and scarcity, it will be based partially on the value the rest of the world places on acts of kindness. What is a kind act really worth? What would the value be to you if it was something done for your brother, sister, children, husband, wife, mother or father? A kind act, depending on the perceived need, might be something you’d throw five dollars to someone for having helped you, or there might not be enough money to reward how important it is. Would you give someone a few bucks for stopping to help you change a tire? What would you give the same person if they stopped and pulled you out of a burning car that you were tapped in? Both of them are genuine acts of kindness, but how do you determine the difference in value? This is a difficult question to answer. There is however a consensus that these types of acts are valuable, and the AoK Platform wants to capture how valuable they are and recognize those individuals as agents for change.

The platform will be composed of several applications, which are segmented as follows:
1. A node / daemon.
2. A wallet or set of wallets for different operating systems.
3. A REST API to communicate with a daemon.
4. A website for promotion of the wallets and platform.
5. A website community for submitting, up voting and monetizing (with Ohm) acts of kindness and subscribing to topics of interest.
6. Mobile applications to participate in the community and submit evidence of acts of kindness.
7. A REST API to allow game companies and other entities to reward positive acts with Ohm.

The purpose of the platform as a whole is the overarching objective, which is to change the world one act of kindness at a time while also supporting the decentralization of the financial world that has concentrated most things of value into the hands of a few. Ohm would be a testament to whether or not people believe in the value of kindness.

The Daemon
The daemon is the most essential starting point for the platform. A bitcoin daemon, or in this case an Ohm daemon, operates on the heart of the blockchain. The Ohm blockchain starts with creating a genesis block, and the daemon is responsible for querying and updating that blockchain. It provides a JSON interface using RPC commands, which aren’t web-friendly. It also does not have a user interface other than a command line, which is why the platform also needs an API and a wallet. The API provides a secure interface to communicate with the daemons / nodes, and the wallets provide a graphical user-interface to interact with an internal version of the daemon. The core code that is used for the daemon is also used for the wallets.

The Wallet
The wallet is a graphical representation of the daemon. Since the daemon operates off of a copy of the Ohm blockchain, so does the wallet. The wallet creates a copy of the blockchain based on the genesis block and another node or daemon on the Ohm blockchain to someone’s computer or device, and the same code that the daemon would use as a node, is the same code the wallet uses to work on the blockchain. The wallet provides a way for someone interested in holding or exchanging Ohm, to create a private key that secures their identity on the blockchain and allows them to start sending, receiving and minting (staking) Ohm. Their identity is secure based on the private key they used, and anonymous from a blockchain perspective. They could then generate public address to send Ohm to other Ohm owners, or use it to participate on cryptocurrency exchanges. The wallet is a secure way to manage the Ohm cryptocurrency on any device it’s deployed to and a common tool developed and used by all cryptocurrencies.

The REST API
In order to interact with a daemon, RPC-JSON structured calls are used. These calls are not made using web-based protocols such as HTTP or HTTPS and are difficult to secure in a manner that doesn’t compromise the daemon and therefore, the blockchain. To accomplish this, a REST API that is JSON based and mirrors the RPC calls is needed as a pass through proxy to the daemon. The API also allows additional security to be implemented using mechanisms such as API keys, public and private key pairs, username and password combinations, OAuth, and other proven security methodologies. This prevents unauthorized access to the daemon and allows there to be an audit trail of what web-based access is used to view and manipulate the blockchain. It also provides a way to separate out which applications are accessing the API and for what purpose, so the API acts as a gateway and helps secure the platform and mitigate risks. This is a critical component to provide services that can be accessed from web and mobile applications and will be central to almost all of the services that the platform is envisioned to provide. Over time, the API can evolve and be extended to support other services that are not blockchain related but are key to delivering value to the other AoK components and objectives.

The Website
The main website will be used to establish the presence of Ohm on the web with an overview and explanation of what Ohm and the AoK platform is, along with the goals and objectives of the platform and the organization. It will include a reference to the Ohm blog, which will provide news and updates on Ohm and AoK as well as other relevant cryptocurrency and blockchain news. There will be references to other social media presence for Ohm such as Twitter and Facebook. Any partnerships or strategic alliances with other entities will be listed on the website and there will be links to the other AoK services, such as the Ohm Block Explorer. The goal of the website is to drive interest and participation, and ultimately to have users download a wallet. The wallet is integral to distributing the currency and building a base of users that are interested in investing in Ohm and the AoK platform, so the goal of the website is to drive the interest toward downloading and installing one.

The Community
The Ohm and AoK community will be one of the largest drivers of the Platform. It will have strong similarities to Steemit and Reddit in that it will be user-driven and have different voting structures that users take part in. The first voting structure will be acts of kindness suggestions. Users will be able to submit ideas and suggestions for what they believe are acts of kindness that will have a positive change in the world around them. These can be things such as planting a tree where there are none, or planting a vegetable garden, or volunteering at a nursing home. These ideas and suggestions can be upvoted by the community until they reach a designated number of votes before they are considered acceptable acts of kindness. Once established, a second tier of voting takes place on the amount of Ohm that the community feels should be rewarded for the act of kindness. This is subjective at best, and will probably require some degree of moderation to make sure there isn’t a gaming of the system. Over time, as the community grows, these acts will change in value based on the community upvoting and downvoting both the ideas and the rewards, so it becomes self-sustaining, similar to Reddit and Steemit. Building this platform with an API is critical to its success, so that other AoK applications for mobile devices can be created to allow mobile devices to receive notifications. These notifications would be associated to topics / areas of interest in the community that users are interested in participating in to earn Ohm. For example, planting a tree or a vegetable garden could be considered an outdoor or agriculture based topic, so users that do a lot of acts in these areas or are interested are most likely to subscribe to notifications in this area. These notifications would be based on when new ideas are approved as acts of kindness and a reward has been established. It would also enable the mobile applications a means to participate in the community directly through their mobile devices. The importance of this is that this allows a way to also earn Ohm without a mobile wallet. The AoK mobile applications would keep track of the Ohm earned through acts of kindness and the community, similar to how Steemit rewards works currently. Anything that earns or pays Ohm for acts of kindness through the mobile applications would create events that get sent to the wallet or daemon API and is transacted separately but associated to one another from a record-keeping perspective. Over time, the community not only represents the acts of kindness that the world finds value in, and how much value for them, but also recognizes all of the acts of kindness that people have done and allows Ohm to quantify that impact on the people and world around us.
